docs(dwh): add doc on usage with bastion and pn MTA-6843 (#6051)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/data-warehouse/api-cli/use-data-warehouse-public-gateway.mdx

---
title: Using a Public Gateway to connect to a deployment in a Private Network
description: This page explains how to connect using a Public Gateway to a Data Warehouse for ClickHouse® deployment located in a Private Network.
tags: data warehouse public gateway bastion ssh tunnel pn vpc
dates:
  validation: 2026-01-12
  posted: 2026-01-12
---

import Requirements from '@macros/iam/requirements.mdx'

[Private Networks](/vpc/) allow your resources to interact securely in an environment isolated from the public internet. You can access a Private Network by adding a [Public Gateway](/public-gateways/) to it, which allows you to connect to your resources via [SSH Bastion](/public-gateways/how-to/use-ssh-bastion/).

This page explains how to connect to a Data Warehouse for ClickHouse® deployment located in a Private Network using SSH Bastion. This can be achieved using two methods:

- By using a direct tunnel between your local machine and the Data Warehouse deployment

> - By connecting to an Instance located in the same Private Network as your Data Warehouse deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- using a direct tunnel between your local machine and the Data Warehouse deployment
- connecting to an Instance located in the same Private Network as your Data Warehouse deployment
```
